---
title: "150 Words per Minute, Daydreaming"
date: 2023-08-07T10:37:22+07:00
draft: true
description: Typing games, walking on a ledge, and daydreaming.
---

---

Some time ago, I finally hit 150 WPM on [Keymash](https://keymash.io). Compared to competitive typists it's nothing and, most importantly, I haven't been able to repeat it as of the time of this writing. However, it got me thinking about how I've been touch typing the last ~10 years and which strategies for going faster worked for me (and which didn't).

---

## 70 WPM

Sometime in the early 2010s, I started learning traditional [QWERTY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QWERTY) keyboard [touch typing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touch_typing) because for my parents insisted that it's a must-have skill in this modern world. On [BBC's Dance Mat Typing](https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/topics/zf2f9j6/articles/z3c6tfr) I learned to be familiar with the concept of the home row, to be patient regardless of my doubts, and to hit the ";" key with my pinkie. Now, more than a decade later, I still stick to the home row but hit the ";" key with my ring finger instead. I also doubt, still, whether it is as beneficial or must-have as advertised. 

Some people I knew back then insisted it would give one an advantage, such as by enabling one to focus on the screen without glancing at the keyboard, but my peers who never learned touch typing seemed to be doing just fine and they don't need to look at the keyboard, too. It certainly seems to be [a topic of debate](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/492/how-important-is-the-ability-to-touch-type). Regardless, I've grown to think of my touch typing as something I invest in simply for fun instead of something particularly useful or practical. 

In the mid-2010s somehow I got acquinted with TypeRacer, although I don't remember how. What I do remember was that I mostly lost the races, and my speed most days was around the range of 70-80 WPM. While I could never be bothered to actually invest time to intentionally practice, I do remember being quite determined at it the same way I used to be determined about memorizing the digits of Pi.

It ended up being a more frustrating experience compared to memorizing the digits of Pi because while the latter was mostly about effort and energy (at one point I memorized a hundred digits), typing fast felt different. Unintuitively, the harder I tried the slower I became instead.

Slowly, I gave up. 

## 90 WPM

Throughout my tween and later teenage years I decided that coding is a cool thing. Started with HTML, got fascinated with CSS, argued with my father about W3Schools. JavaScript became my very first programming language, Ruby I momentarily dipped my toes in. Filled my free time with Python back when everyone was still using Python 2.x and then Processing and ProcessingJS and some.

While I didn't realize it until much later, slowly this all affected my touch typing. I became used to moving my right hand around more to reach the ";" and "[" and "}" and "<" and "\" keys without seeing the keyboard, and years later I realized I've kind of developed my own typing style where the right hand mostly "floats". 

I wasn't really into typing games but I got back into TypeRacer now and then whenever my friends started flexing their WPM. At one point in high school I reached 90 WPM, which stretched into 100-110 WPM on good days. I cannot quite tell how it happened. Perhaps practice, courtesy of spending too much time at the computer. 

## 120 WPM